Heroes are the essential element of Dota 2, as the course of the match is dependent on their intervention. During a match, two opposing teams select five out of 113 heroes that accumulate experience and gold to grow stronger and gain new abilities in order to destroy the opponent's Ancient. Most heroes have a distinct role that defines how they affect the battlefield, though many heroes can perform multiple roles. A hero's appearance can be modified with equipment.
Strength heroes[edit]
Strength heroes tend to have more health and health regeneration than heroes of other classes, making them more resilient to both physical attacks and spells. Strength heroes have the greatest variety in their roles, including that of carry, ganker, and support, but almost all of them have some form of strong initiation and are supposed to act as tanks to some degree. In addition, heroes with a large amount of strength may greatly increase the damage needed to bring a team down. With the exception of Huskar, Io, Phoenix and Dragon Knight in his Elder Dragon Form, all strength heroes are melee. Whilst Intelligence heroes typically sport a strong early game, and Agility heroes excel in the late game, Strength heroes are often able to strike a balance between the two and remain relevant at all points of the game.

At the moment, there are 37 Strength Heroes implemented in Dota 2.

Below is a table of all heroes with strength as their primary attribute. The growth columns indicate by how much the base values will increase for each level of the hero.
Agility heroes[edit]
Because Agility heroes are the only class of heroes to gain both damage and attack speed as their primary attribute increases, they tend to have the highest physical damage output as the game progresses. This makes them scale very well with offensive items. They tend to have limited disabling capabilities or nukes; almost all their abilities augment their physical capabilities or serve as positioning or escape mechanisms. This tends to make them much more vulnerable and weak in the early game when strong offensive disables and nukes dictate the flow of kills, but also means that, with good items under their belts, they will be the ones delivering the greatest amount of damage in the late game, while also being dealt the least amount of physical damage as a result of their high armor. Agility heroes have a roughly even split between being melee or being ranged, and fit primarily into carry and ganker roles.

At the moment, there are 36 Agility Heroes implemented in Dota 2.

Below is a table of all Heroes with Agility as their primary attribute. The growth columns indicate by how much the base values will increase for each level of the hero
Intelligence heroes[edit]
Intelligence heroes tend to have a greater number of active abilities compared to heroes of other classes; all Intelligence heroes have at least three active abilities, with a large number of them having all four of their abilities being actives. Their larger mana pools and higher mana regen rates go a long way to help them use these abilities frequently. As a whole, Intelligence heroes have by far the greatest number of disabling capabilities, making them essential in most lineups. The items they build also tend to be highly caster based, since those items primarily provide Intelligence. With the exceptions of Dark Seer and Ogre Magi, all Intelligence heroes are ranged. Because most Intelligence heroes have abilities such as static damage nukes that scale poorly, they tend to have a strong early game, when enemies' health pools are low, but a much weaker late game, when enemies have high health and strong defensive items. Because of this, they often fit into support and ganker roles.

At the moment, there are 40 Intelligence Heroes implemented in Dota 2.

Below is a table of all heroes with intelligence as their primary attribute. The growth columns indicate by how much the base values will increase for each level of the hero.